## DDAG - Distributed Directed Acycli Graph
Entire TAU data space stores in a conceptual DAG like data structure. Blockchains, messages, pictures, images or videos are all linked to form the graph. Any collection of content such as an image start with its first DAG item linking to the rest like a blockchain fashion. Video has two demension on both time links and frame links. 
In order to get fast transmission, each DAG item is less than 1000 bytes, after libtorrent bencode it will become less than 1500, which conforms to ethernet ip package size. 
Different from DAG used by other projects such as git, TAU DAG is distributed among different phones. There is no central place to get entire DAG. 
In fact, POT consensus builds blockchain in DAG gets protection from user reading the messages. Any messages user reads become protection for the community, since messages links to other messages and blockchains. When history attack happens, it will be clear to decide which chain is real because of the read news history in the phone. 

---
### Bandwidth savings
In DDAG, there is not single place to store the whole graph for communities, given all information from all phones are cross-referenced via hash to enhance the overall immutability and security. In the community, each phone keeps a portion of the DDAG. When peers request a data item in the DDAG, any peers could answer the content. When it comes to a image or video, the answering peer could only provide minimum data for display an image which is stored in progressive mode in the DAG. This represents a big data saving. A typical images can be displayed properly in a phone screen for merely 5kbytes. <br><br>
An interesting user experience is that user can share huge amount of photos without need to upload to anything. At the same time, peers can view these photos under progressive mode quickly. 
### Immalleability
The Proof of Work design of bitcoin is to use computer's puzzle solving power to prevent hackers to go to history record to change something. The POW engages big resouces and not friendly to any mobile device. DDAG provides an alternative way to prevent hackers to do history mordification. Since DDAG contains information cross referenced among different community and peers, changing DAG history will be easily recogonized by client software to discover, due to any bit of change in history will cause entire DAG hash changes even the content staying the same and cause much broken links. 
